---
title: Summary Chapter 11
description: Wrap up of Qwik Testing module.
---

# Summary

We opened this chapter by providing an overview of why writing tests is a good practice. Detecting bugs in advance is certainly the trigger that motivates us to create a well-made test suite. This will allow us to improve the quality of our code and save money in the medium/long term. Refactoring is made easier thanks to this practice and the result is clean, well-structured code that will be easier to understand. By writing small decoupled code functions our application will become modular and easy to test. It's important to think small and not want to solve the whole problem right away.
We then saw the various types of tests together, we started by analyzing the unit tests, which are very important because they have high execution speed and return immediate feedback. We have seen the Visual regression tests which are useful to avoid producing graphic errors that we did not notice with our own eyes. These tests allow us to automatically perform tests on multiple devices or resolutions, which is of great help when we need to cover a very large range of devices that may not necessarily be available for manual testing.
With the integration tests, we started to see how to simulate the user and the various flows that he can perform in our application. Having these tests gives us peace of mind that our code hasn't introduced any regressions and that the integrations we've tested have remained as desired. Multiple integration tests are combined to build the end-to-end tests. While these tests can be expensive in terms of maintenance, they provide us with a significant level of security. As mentioned, the ideal would at least be to test the main flow to ensure that users can use the core functionality of our platform. To offer everyone the opportunity to use the application, it is also correct to also check that accessibility is highly respected. With modern HTML you just need to be careful in using the right tags and attributes to make our application truly accessible. We discussed together how it is important to understand when it is right to invest time in testing and I introduced you to TDD, a truly exceptional methodology that offers us many advantages because it allows us to write better code. We integrated Cypress as a tool to run our end-to-end tests, we started from a first component and performed an initial refactoring which allowed us to improve the code, the tests then certified that our new implementation did not change the expected result.
Finally, we analyzed the QwikUI library and the Accordion component in detail, we saw together the tests that have been implemented to guarantee consistency and full accessibility.
In the next chapter, we will make some final considerations and we will see together some advice on how to migrate your application to Qwik.
