---
title: Summary Chapter 10
description: Wrap up of e-commerce module.
code: https://gitlab.com/fullstackio/books/newline-course-apps/giorgio-boa-qwik-in-action-app/-/tree/main/module_10
---

# Summary

In this chapter, we added other features to our e-commerce that make it a truly usable application in production. It will then be our task to carry out a deployment in production. In the previous chapters, however, we have seen that it is very simple to deploy our Qwik application because there are many integrations to perform the deployment and specifically we have analyzed the deployment with Vercel.
We added the ability to mark products as favorites and being able to see the list of favorite items would be a nice feature to implement as a homework assignment. We have implemented a global state to keep track of our cart and therefore with each added product we have the updated situation. We have created a cart button that will allow us to trigger the stripe flow and redirect the user to the checkout on the Stripe platform. In this way, we have freed ourselves from payment management and everything happens safely in the Stripe environment; the user then, following the procedure, will be redirected to the route of our application both in the event of success and in the event of an error.
Together we went to see how easy it is with Supabase to create intelligent functions that allow us to execute more or less complex logic. Thanks to this function we have created a view counter for our pages. Then we saw the real-time database feature which is a really powerful feature and allowed us to view page views in real-time. In an e-commerce it might make sense to show how many active users are seeing a certain product, this can increase our earnings by bringing more orders. Our users may feel they have a unique opportunity to purchase the product they are viewing. It is necessary to carry out tests to validate and understand whether the functionality brings the advantages we have just indicated.
There are many features to implement, starting with the possibility of eliminating or modifying the quantities of an item or creating a user area where you can view order history or change your credentials. I'll leave these ideas to you as homework, try implementing some functionality before moving on to the next chapter. Speaking of the most common best practices in writing our applications, we cannot fail to mention the fact of trying to keep the code as clean as possible and assigning meaningful names to the variables to avoid extra cognitive efforts to understand the code being written. It often happens that over time even the same person who wrote the code struggles to immediately understand the application logic, so pay attention to the names of the variables and more. Nowadays there are tools to perform automatic linting of our code and I must say that it is quite a convenience. They allow us to standardize the written code, avoiding going crazy from the eternal dilemma... spaces versus tabs or more code styling things. Which one do you like the most? Honestly, you just need to reach an agreement within the team and avoid returning to the issue every code review.
Another aspect to be considered as absolute best practice is the writing of tests. Dedicating time to writing tests is certainly one of the most valuable practices. We will see together how to test our Qwik application to ensure you have a rock-solid solution.
