---
title: Summary Chapter 4
description: Wrap up of Getting Started with Qwik module.
---

# Summary

This chapter is full of advanced concepts. It begins by explaining what bundlers are. The transition to Vite is discussed, explaining why it performs better and why it has become the de facto standard for modern front-end development. We start with Webpack and its limitations. Accompanied by two code snippets, the way Vite manages dynamic imports is analyzed. Vite provides the opportunity to create plugins, and a simple example is created that paves the way to see what the Qwik team created instead.

First, the Qwik compilation process is analyzed, and thanks to the `vite-plugin-inspect` plugin, a deep dive is taken into the details of what happens in the build process. The grouping of files and how the service worker can understand which symbols are inside a given bundle are explored in the division between' symbols' and' bundles'. This entire process is possible because the `Qwik Optimizer` can do an amazing job. Here, the use of plugins has been pushed to the extreme. Normally, these plugins are used to perform a one-to-one transformation of the files; for example, a TypeScript file input produces an output JavaScript file. However, to break it down into symbols and make the mental model of Resumability possible, more has been done. A file is entered, and multiple JavaScript files are produced based on the `$` marker. A series of logic is employed that makes this multi-transformation possible. Producing multiple files from a single input is a feature not provided by Vite, but it has been implemented in the `vite-plugin-qwik` plugin to achieve the result. The analysis then proceeds to how to create a new Qwik application and the technical requirements to start developing.

The scaffolding of a new Qwik application is examined, the configurations are analyzed, and a deep dive is taken into the logic of the basic routing file. The handling of layouts, named layouts, and the management of the 404 page are discussed with all its related facets. Finally, a deep dive is taken into the details of middleware, understanding their purpose and the order in which they are executed. With some examples, everything is clarified, and then a deep dive is taken into the details of the plugin files, which are very useful for executing logic even before processing the layout files. In the next chapter, the Core Web Vitals will be analyzed, and it will be seen how Qwik allows for achieving sensational results. It will also be understood how to deploy an application to make it accessible via a public web address.
