---
title: Micro-frontends with Qwik
description: Qwik and micro-frontends together, no problem, out of the box Qwik can manage this scenario with no external dependencies.
---

# Micro-frontends with Qwik

The approach just described offers us a beautiful hook for the micro-frontends architecture. The first page can only be the beginning of the migration, and then complete the entire transition of the codebase to Qwik. However, the micro-frontends architecture was created for a different purpose, the need to scale development and coordinate various teams within medium/large applications. Imagine having an application developed by different teams and having to ship features and fix bugs all together within the same code base. It is very complex to coordinate the development of many people.
Taking inspiration from micro-services, the micro-frontends architecture involves the division of the final application into micro applications (aka micro-frontends). These micro apps are as independent as possible to avoid the various teams having to coordinate frequently, all this to be able to scale better and avoid wasting effort. However, the final application must be uniform, so libraries are usually used ( e.g., [module federation](https://webpack.js.org/concepts/module-federation/) ) to load the various micro-frontends to create a single final application. Here too, Qwik still amazes us because no external library is needed to "merge" multiple applications into a single final one. It will be sufficient to load them into a Qwik host app and by its nature, it will then be possible to use the final application optimally. With micro-frontends architecture, the various applications can reside in independent repositories or a monorepo, a single repository containing all the applications. By taking advantage of the monorepo approach, I created a working example of Qwik micro-frontends in this repository [qwik-micro-frontends](https://github.com/gioboa/qwik-microfrontends) from which you can take inspiration. Qwik also solves a well known problem with micro-frontends, that of sending too much JavaScript into the browser. We have seen in detail how Resumability works and therefore it does not matter if I am loading one, two, or five applications at the same time, the JavaScript that I am going to execute will only be 1KB of our `qwikloader`. Therefore, however big or small my application is, I will always have an instant application.

## Managing Monorepo with Qwik and Nx

We said that `qwik-micro-frontends` is a monorepo all the micro-frontends reside in the same repository. To manage the monorepo we can create the various folders one inside the other without the aid of any tool, but as the project evolves some problems arise which are difficult to master without a specific tool to help us. The management of shared dependencies between micro-frontends, the sharing of a component library, or simply the sharing of the style are just some of the problems that we will be able to solve. Fortunately for us, there is [Nx](https://nx.dev/) the de facto standard for mono repo and offers many integrations including [Qwik](https://nx.dev/showcase/example-repos/add-qwik). Nx can manage all these problems for us and more, it will allow us to focus on our functionality and avoid investing time in configuration and infrastructure tasks which are often boring and repetitive. My favorite feature is incremental compilation with caching because once your application grows, your build and test times will grow too. This impacts all developers running the application locally on their machine but also impacts the build/test/deploy pipelines for the test or production environment. In large projects, this problem is very common because it is easy to see execution times of these processes that last precious minutes. Here, with the use of this tool, it's possible to optimize all these times and productivity will benefit from it.

## Real-world Qwik applications

There are so many applications that are using Qwik in production, closing thousands of orders and basing their business on this framework. Not only this, there are medical applications that take hospital bookings, applications that manage online auctions, e-commerce, and many others. They all feature sensational Core Web Vitals and great developer and user experience. Many web agencies have built their stack around Qwik and many others, with legacy applications, are making the gradual transition, it's certainly an intelligent choice to migrate gradually. An idea could be to put a homepage in Qwik in front of the legacy application to take advantage of the truly amazing performance and Core Web Vitals, then the user will be redirected to the legacy application smoothly. The important thing is to keep the design of our pages the same to make this step transparent, without making it obvious that there are two different technologies under the hood.
